In fall (autumn), New England is famous for its glorious foliage as billions
of leaves change from green to a kaleidoscope
of colors. The air is crisp and cool  perfect for hiking, biking or
a classic fly-drive break along back roads, where farm stands are piled high
with crunchy apples and orange pumpkins. When is the best time to come?
The leaves start turning colors in the northern regions of Maine, Vermont,
and New Hampshire typically around mid-to-late September and peaking around mid-October.
In the more southern states of Massachusetts and Rhode Island
and along the coast of New Hampshire and southern Maine, color starts later
and often lasts up until November.

Connecticut: Drive scenic State Route 169 parallel to the Rhode Island border,
with picture-pretty villages such as Canterbury, Pomphrey, Brooklyn, and Woodstock.
In Old Mystic, tour B. F. Clyde Cider Mill, Americas oldest steam-powered cider mill,
family owned and run since 1881. Watch cider-making demonstrations
on weekends in October and November. During fall harvest time,
learn the difference between Merlot and Chardonnay, Cayuga and Seyval
at the 25wineries along the Connecticut Wine Trail.  Connecticut is one big orchard:
 in fall, pick your own pumpkins and apples Or, hike and bike in the  Last Green Valley, 
the 35-town National Heritage Corridor in the northeast corner of the state:
five state parks, seven state forests, 80 ponds and lakes, and 130 miles of trails,
including the East Coast Greenway.

Maine: In the midcoast, tour the Maine Maritime Museum, where you can
see old boats, a shipyard and art, as well as take part in hands-on activities.
Drive down a rocky promontory to Five Islands Lobster in Georgetown for a lobster roll:
 from Route 1, take 127 South. Local directions suggest:
"keep going until your hat floats, and then just back up a bit."
Enjoy fall color all over Maine: go hiking and biking in
Acadia National Park canoe and listen to loons in the Rangeley Lakesregion.
And, for a spectacular view, take the elevator to the observatory
high up on the Penobscot Narrows Bridge.

Masssachusetts: Drive along the Mohawk Trail in Western Massachusetts  Americas
first officiallydesignated "scenic road."
It runs up and over theBerkshire Hillsand leads to state parks
and forests for hiking and biking. Drive to the top of Mount Greylock
for fabulous foliage views. At Natural Bridge State Park, see a true wonder,
North Americas only naturally formed white marble arch.
Or, zipline through the tree canopy on one of the ziplines
found throughout the state.North of Boston,
go out toCape Annand take a boat tour from Gloucester or Essex.

New Hampshire:In the beautifulWhite Mountains region,
you can stand on the top of New England: the summit of Mount Washington.
Get there on theAuto Road(self-drive or van tours)
or on the historicCog Railway. Want to climb an easy mountain?
Near Jaffrey,Mount Monadnockis the "most climbed mountain in North America,"
with great views from the top. In the Lakes Region,
take a cruise on theM/S Mount Washington.
With mountains as a backdrop, the foliage seems to wrap around Lake Winnipesaukee.
Up in northern New Hampshire,
Dixville Notchis an areacovered with endless unspoiled scenery,
exceptional hiking, mountain biking.

Rhode Island: The USAs smallest state is making a name
for itself as aproducer of wine.
And, when better to visit the vineyards than at harvest time?
With lunch and a tasting, this is a great day out.
But, across the state,Rhode Island farms are also celebrating their bounty;
stop at farm stands, pick-your-own and join-in-the-harvest festivals.
Or, go back in time to the start of Americas industrial revolution.
AtSlater Mill, Samuel Slater built North Americas first successful water-powered,
cotton-spinning mill on the banks of the Blackstone River.
Tour this historic area by boat and see the fall color on theBlackstone Valley Explorer.
Vermont:For birds-eye views of the foliage, head forBennington.
At theBattle Monument, you can scan the landscape from the top, more than 300 ft.
(91m) above the ground. And, you dont have to climb any stairs; just take the elevator!
Or, drive up the very steep Skyline Drive to the top ofMount Equinox, south ofManchester.
On a clear day, you can see across New England, into New York State and even into Canada.
Burlingtonmakes a great base for seeing the foliage:
take a Lake Champlain cruise, or go up in ahot-air balloon!

In fall (autumn), New England is famous for its glorious foliage as billions
of leaves change from green to a kaleidoscope
of colors. The air is crisp and cool  perfect for hiking, biking or
a classic fly-drive break along back roads, where farm stands are piled high
with crunchy apples and orange pumpkins. When is the best time to come?
The leaves start turning colors in the northern regions of Maine, Vermont,
and New Hampshire typically around mid-to-late September and peaking around mid-October.
In the more southern states of Massachusetts and Rhode Island
and along the coast of New Hampshire and southern Maine, color starts later
and often lasts up until November.

Connecticut: Drive scenic State Route 169 parallel to the Rhode Island border,
with picture-pretty villages such as Canterbury, Pomphrey, Brooklyn, and Woodstock.
In Old Mystic, tour B. F. Clyde Cider Mill, Americas oldest steam-powered cider mill,
family owned and run since 1881. Watch cider-making demonstrations
on weekends in October and November. During fall harvest time,
learn the difference between Merlot and Chardonnay, Cayuga and Seyval
at the 25wineries along the Connecticu